{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17700\viewh8740\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Basic rules of Catan can be found here: http://www.catan.com/files/downloads/soc_rv_rules_091907.pdf\
Warning: not all rules implemented, but more are on the way 2/23/14.  \
\
Splash Screen Instructions:\
	Click on a Player to type a new name. \
	It automatically clears the name when you click on the box. \
	Set any player\'92s name to \'93\'94 (whack happens the first time you click the player\'92s name automatically) if you don\'92t want them to play. \
	Use the left and right arrow keys to set the color. \
\
Main game:\
Instructions: \
	Objective: Get 10 victory points. \
	How do you get victory points?	\
		1 settlement = 1 victory point \
		1 city = 2 victory points\
		1 victory point development card = 1 victory point\
	How do you build settlements? \
		Click on an empty vertex. There must be 1 vertex in between every building. And after the initialization rounds there must be a road leading to the vertex. \
	How do build roads? \
		Click on an edge between 2 vertexes. There must be a road leading to the vertex or it must be adjacent to one of your buildings.\
	What are the initialization rounds? \
		When the came starts, every player gets 2 free settlements. Player 1 places one of each, then Player 2, until the last player. The last player then places his second road and settlements immediately after their first and the order reverses. The players get one of each resource their second settlement is adjacent to.  Then the game starts.\
	What are the dice for?\
		their sum determines which hexagons produce resources that turn. every player with a settlement adjacent to the hexagon gets 1 of the hexagon\'92s resource, every player with a city adjacent to the hexagon gets 2 of the hexagon\'92s resource. If you roll a 7 every player with more than 7 resources in their hand must discard half their resources (randomly done automatically by the computer), and you must move the robber. \
	Why do resources matter?\
		Building and buying dev cards cost resources:\
			Road 			1 Brick 1 Wood	\
			Settlement 		1 Brick 1 Wood 1 Sheep 1Wheat \
			City 			2 Wheat 3 Stone \
			DevCard 		1 Sheep 1 Stone 1 Wheat\
	What is the robber?\
		It stops a hex from producing when its number is rolled. \
	What are development cards?\
		development cards or dev cards are special cards that give you a certain capability. the are as follows (the number of them in the parenthesis):\
			Soldier(14): move the robber\
			Victory Point(5): 1 victory point \
			Monopoly(2): Every player must give you all of a given resource that you pick(it is the same for all players).\
			Road Builder(2): 2 free roads\
			Year of Plentey(2): 2 of a resource of your choice\
		When you buy a devcard it gives you an random one out of the dev cards left. \
Key:	\
	The circles on vertexes that are solid are settlements. Their color is the player they belong to.\
	The circles on vertexes that have white circles in them are cities.\
	Red is Brick, Dark green is wood, light green is sheep, gray is stone, gold is wheat, yellow is  the desert. \
	The number in the center of the hexagon is the number the sum of the dice must add up to to get that resource\
	The solid black circle is the robber.\
	All the players in order are in a box on the left about the resource list.  The current player is boxed. \
	The time left in the turn  \
Controls:  \
	Click on a vertex to build a settlement, or a city on top of  a settlement \
	Click on an edge between 2 vertices to build a road \
	Click on a resources to trade it with the bank \
	Click on \'93Buy\'94 to buy a dev card \
	Click on \'93Use\'94 to use a dev card or see how many you have\
		One in the \'93select a development card\'94 screen, click on a card to use it }